---
id: erc1155
title: ERC1155 Deposit and Withdraw Guide
sidebar_label: ERC1155
description: Build your next blockchain app on Polygon.
keywords:
  - docs
  - matic
image: https://matic.network/banners/matic-network-16x9.png
---

Check the latest [Matic.js documentation for ERC1155](https://maticnetwork.github.io/matic.js/docs/pos/erc1155/).

This tutorial uses the Polygon Testnet ( Mumbai ) which is mapped to the Goerli Network to demonstrate the asset transfer to and fro the two blockchains. An **important thing to be noted** while following this tutorial is that you should always use a Proxy address whenever it is available. For eg. The **RootChainManagerProxy** address has to be used for interaction instead of the **RootChainManager** address. The **PoS contract addresses, ABI, Test Token Addresses** and other deployment details of the PoS bridge contracts can be found [here](/docs/develop/ethereum-polygon/pos/deployment).

**Mapping your assets** is necessary to integrate the PoS bridge on your application. You can submit a mapping request [here](/docs/develop/ethereum-polygon/submit-mapping-request). But for the purpose of this tutorial, we have already deployed the **Test tokens** and Mapped then on the PoS bridge. You may need it for trying out the tutorial on your own. You can request the desired Asset from the [faucet](https://faucet.polygon.technology/). If the test tokens are unavailable on the faucet, do reach us on [discord](https://discord.com/invite/0xPolygon)

In the upcoming tutorial, every step will be explained in detail along with a few code snippets. However, you can always refer to this [repository](https://github.com/maticnetwork/matic.js/tree/master/examples/pos) which will have all the **example source code** that can help you to integrate and understand the working of PoS bridge.

## High Level Flow

Deposit ERC1155 -

1. **_Approve_** **_ERC1155Predicate_** contract to spend the tokens that have to be deposited.
2. Make **_depositFor_** call on **_RootChainManager_**.

Withdraw ERC1155 -

1. **_Burn_** tokens on Polygon chain.
2. Call **_exit_** function on **_RootChainManager_** to submit proof of burn transaction. This call can be made **_after checkpoint_** is submitted for the block containing burn transaction.

## Step Details

---

### approveALL

[approveAll method](https://maticnetwork.github.io/matic.js/docs/pos/erc1155/approve-all/)

This is a normal ERC1155 approval so that `ERC1155Predicate` can call `transferFrom` function. The Polygon `POSClient` exposes the [`approveERC1155ForDeposit`](https://github.com/maticnetwork/matic.js/blob/4bf4fa9438d56c9b5c282f456aa2c24f6ff6083d/src/index.ts#L231) method to make this call.

```jsx
const erc1155RootToken = posClient.erc1155(<root token address>,true);
const approveResult = await erc1155RootToken.approveAll();
const txHash = await approveResult.getTransactionHash();
const txReceipt = await approveResult.getReceipt();

```

### Deposit

[Deposit method](https://maticnetwork.github.io/matic.js/docs/pos/erc1155/deposit/) can be done by calling `depositFor` on the `RootChainManager` contract. Note that token needs to be mapped and approved for transfer beforehand. Once tokens are transferred deposit proceeds using **_StateSync_** mechanism. The Polygon `POSClient` exposes the [`depositSingleERC1155ForUser`](https://github.com/maticnetwork/matic.js/blob/4bf4fa9438d56c9b5c282f456aa2c24f6ff6083d/src/index.ts#L245) & [`depositBatchERC1155ForUser`](https://github.com/maticnetwork/matic.js/blob/4bf4fa9438d56c9b5c282f456aa2c24f6ff6083d/src/index.ts#L259) methods to make this call.

```jsx
const erc1155RootToken = posClient.erc1155(<root token address>, true);

const result = await erc1155RootToken.deposit({
    amount: 1,
    tokenId: '123',
    userAddress: <from address>,
    data: '0x5465737445524331313535', // data is optional
});

const txHash = await result.getTransactionHash();
const txReceipt = await result.getReceipt();
```

The `deposit` function of `ChildToken` is called by the `ChildChainManager`. Tokens should be minted when this call is made.

> NOTE: Deposits from Ethereum to Polygon happen using a state sync mechanism and takes about ~5-7 minutes. After waiting for this time interval, it is recommended to check the balance using web3.js/matic.js library or using Metamask. The explorer will show the balance only if at least one asset transfer has happened on the child chain. This [link](/docs/develop/ethereum-polygon/pos/deposit-withdraw-event-pos) explains how to track the deposit events.

### Burn

User can call the `withdraw` function of `ChildToken` contract. This function should burn the tokens. The Polygon `POSClient` exposes the `burnSingleERC1155` & `burnBatchERC1155` methods to make this call.

```jsx
const erc1155Token = posClient.erc1155(<child token address>);
const result = await erc1155Token.withdrawStart(<token id>,<amount>);
const txHash = await result.getTransactionHash();
const txReceipt = await result.getReceipt();
```

**Store the transaction hash for this call and use it while generating burn proof.**

### Exit

[WithdrawExit method](https://maticnetwork.github.io/matic.js/docs/pos/erc1155/withdraw-exit/) Once the `checkpoint` has been **_submitted_** for the block containing burn transaction, a user should call the `exit` function of the `RootChainManager` contract and submit the proof of burn. Upon submitting valid proof tokens are transferred to the user. Polygon POS client exposes `exitBatchERC1155` & `exitSingleERC1155` method to make this call. This function can be called only after the checkpoint is included in the main chain. The checkpoint inclusion can be tracked by following this [guide](/docs/develop/ethereum-polygon/pos/deposit-withdraw-event-pos#checkpoint-events).

```jsx
const erc1155RootToken = posClient.erc1155(<root token address>, true);
const result = await erc1155RootToken.withdrawExit(<burn tx hash>);
const txHash = await result.getTransactionHash();
const txReceipt = await result.getReceipt();
```
