---
id: erc1155
title: ER1155 Deposit and Withdraw Guide
sidebar_label: ERC1155
description: Build your next blockchain app on Polygon.
keywords:
  - docs
  - matic
image: https://matic.network/banners/matic-network-16x9.png
---

## High Level Flow

Depositing ERC1155 -

1. **_Approve_** **_ERC1155Predicate_** contract to spend the tokens that have to be deposited.
2. Make **_depositFor_** call on **_RootChainManager_**.

Withdrawing ERC1155 -

1. **_Burn_** tokens on Polygon chain.
2. Call **_exit_** function on **_RootChainManager_** to submit proof of burn transaction. This call can be made **_after checkpoint_** is submitted for the block containing burn transaction.

## Step Details
---

### Instantiate the contracts
```js
const mainWeb3 = new Web3(mainProvider)
const maticWeb3 = new Web3(maticProvider)
const rootTokenContract = new mainWeb3.eth.Contract(rootTokenABI, rootTokenAddress)
const rootChainManagerContract = new mainWeb3.eth.Contract(rootChainManagerABI, rootChainManagerAddress)
const childTokenContract = new maticWeb3(childTokenABI, childTokenAddress)
```

### Approve
Provide approval for the **ERC1155Predicate** to spend tokens by calling the **setApprovalForAll** method of token contract. This function takes two arguments **operator** and **approved**. **Operator** is the address that is being approved to spend user's tokens. **Approved** is a boolean indicating if tokens can be spent.

This is what the **setApprovalForAll** method looks like
```js
await rootTokenContract.methods
  .setApprovalForAll(erc1155Predicate, true)
  .send({ from: userAddress })
```

### Deposit
Note that token needs to be mapped and approved for deposit before making this call.  
Call the **_depositFor_** function of **_RootChainManager_** contract. This function takes 3 arguments user, rootToken and depositData. **_user_** is the address of user that will receive the deposit on Polygon chain. **_rootToken_** is the address of token on main chain. **_depositData_** is abi encoded list of ids, list of tokens and bytes data.
```js
const depositData = mainWeb3.eth.abi.encodeParameters(
  ['uint256[]', 'uint256[]', 'bytes'],
  idList, amountList, data
)
await rootChainManagerContract.methods
  .depositFor(userAddress, rootToken, depositData)
  .send({ from: userAddress })
```

### Burn
Tokens can be burned on Polygon chain by calling the **_withdrawSingle_** or **_withdrawBatch_** function on child token contract. withdrawSingle takes two arguments, **_id_** and **_amount_** indicating the tokens to be burned. withdrawBatch takes 2 arguments, list of **_ids_** and list of **_amounts_**. Proof of this burn needs to be submitted in the exit step. So store the transaction hash.
```js
// For single burn
const burnTx = await childTokenContract.methods
  .withdrawSingle(id, amount)
  .send({ from: userAddress })
const burnTxHash = burnTx.transactionHash
```
```js
// For batch burn
const burnTx = await childTokenContract.methods
  .withdrawBatch(idList, amountList)
  .send({ from: userAddress })
const burnTxHash = burnTx.transactionHash
```

### Exit
Exit function on **_RootChainManager_** contract has to be called to unlock and receive the tokens back from **_ERC1155Predicate_**. This function takes a single bytes argument that proves the burn transaction. Wait for the checkpoint containing burn tenasaction to be submitted before calling this function. The Proof is generated by RLP ecoding following fields -

1. headerNumber - Checkpoint header block number containing the burn tx
2. blockProof - Proof that the block header (in the child chain) is a leaf in the submitted merkle root
3. blockNumber - Block number containing the burn tx on child chain
4. blockTime - Burn tx block time
5. txRoot - Transactions root of block
6. receiptRoot - Receipts root of block
7. receipt - Receipt of the burn transaction
8. receiptProof - Merkle proof of the burn receipt
9. branchMask - 32 bits denoting the path of receipt in merkle patricia tree
10. receiptLogIndex - Log Index to read from the receipt

Generating proof manually can be tricky so it is advisable to use Polygon Edge. If you want to send the transaction manually, you can pass **_encodeAbi_** as **_true_** in the options object to get raw calldata.
```js
const exitCalldata = await maticPOSClient
  .exitSingleERC1155(burnTxHash, { from, encodeAbi: true })
```

Send this calldata to **_RootChainManager_**.
```js
await mainWeb3.eth.sendTransaction({
  from: userAddress,
  to: rootChainManagerAddress,
  data: exitCalldata.data
})
```
